\section{Data and Resource Sharing
Plan}\label{data-and-resource-sharing-plan}

It is the philosophy of the group to make all data generated by the
laboratory or in collaboration with the laboratory available to the
widest potential audience with the least number of restrictions.

\subsection{Data Sharing}\label{data-sharing}

Publications arising from these studies where we are the corresponding
author will be published in journals meeting the gold open access
standards of free availability, and a permissive re-use license (CC-BY
or the like). All published data will be submitted to journals indexed
by the major biomedical indexing sites including PubMed and PubMed
Central.

For all studies the raw data, as well as the relevant metadata and
computational algorithms used to generate statistical and graphical
summaries which were used to generate the final research data will be
provided. This data will be provided with a permissive (CC0 or CC-BY)
use license. These data tables of 3-star or higher quality (as defined
by Open Data Standards see \url{http://5stardata.info/}).

Data will also be deposited as supplementary data to the relevant
publications where possible and where permitted, and all raw data,
processed data and analysis code will be deposited to web-accessible
data repositories such as Zenodo (\url{http://zenodo.com}), Figshare
(\url{http://figshare.com}), Dryad (\url{http://datadryad.org/}) or
similar services. All next generation sequence files will be deposited
into the Gene Expression Omnibus
(\url{http://http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/}) and the accession number
will be quoted in the manuscript(s). Finally data will be posted on, or
linked to, from the principal investigator's website. If further data is
obtained relevant to these studies, which can be combined with the
published data sets, these evolving data sets will be added to the
available online repositories, separately from the published data sets.

\subsection{Resource Sharing}\label{resource-sharing}

All commercially purchased antibodies, reagents or kits will be clearly
described in publications, including catalog or stock numbers. This data
will also be provided in the metadata assoicated with published
datasets. Reagents, constructs, fruit fly, cell or mouse transgenic
lines generated during these studies will be maintained in the principal
investigator's laboratory and made available freely and without
restriction to any scientists, providing sufficient amounts are
availabe. The only exception to this is if a reagent or line was
provided with a restrictive materials transfer agreement, in which case
the recipient investigator will be directed to the primary source of the
reagent. All publications will direct readers to the source of
commercially available resources including catalog numbers

\subsection{Notes}\label{notes}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Version 1.3.1}
\item
  Updated on October 18, 2016 by Dave Bridges
  \textless{}\href{mailto:dave.bridges@gmail.com}{\nolinkurl{dave.bridges@gmail.com}}\textgreater{}
\item
  The version numbering for this document is described in the
  \href{https://github.com/BridgesLab/Lab-Documents/blob/master/Lab\%20Policies/README.rst}{Lab
  Policies README}. See the
  \href{https://github.com/BridgesLab/Lab-Documents/blob/master/Lab\%20Policies/data-resource-sharing.rst}{GitHub
  Repository} for more granular changes.
\end{itemize}
