Data and Resource Sharing Plan
==============================

It is the philosophy of the group to make all data generated by the
laboratory or in collaboration with the laboratory available to the
widest potential audience with the least number of restrictions.

Data Sharing
------------

Publications arising from these studies will be published in journals
meeting the gold open access standards of free availability, and a
permissive re-use licence (CC-BY or the like). All published data will
be submitted to journals indexed by the major biomedical indexing sites
including PubMed and PubMed Central. For all studies the raw data, as
well as the relevant metadata and computational algorithms used to
generate statistical and graphical summaries which were used to generate
the final research data will be provided. This data will be provided
with a permissive (CC0 or CC-BY) use license. These data tables of
3-star or higher quality (as defined by Open Data Standards see
<http://5stardata.info/>). Data will be deposited as supplementary data
to the relevant publications where possible and where permitted, and all
raw data, processed data and analysis code will be deposited to
web-accessible data repositories such as Zenodo (<http://zenodo.com>),
Figshare (<http://figshare.com>), Dryad (<http://datadryad.org/>) or
similar services. All next generation sequence files will be deposited
into the Gene Expression Omnibus
(<http://http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/>) and the accession number
will be quoted in the manuscript(s). Finally data will be posted on, or
linked to, from the principal investigator’s website. If further data is
obtained relevant to these studies, which can be combined with the
published data sets, these evolving data sets will be added to the
available online repositories, separately from the published data sets.

Resource Sharing
----------------

All commercially purchased antibodies, reagents or kits will be clearly
described in publications, including catalog or stock numbers. This data
will also be provided in the metadata assoicated with published data
sets. Reagents, constructs, fruit fly, cell or mouse transgenic lines
generated during these s udies will be maintained in the principal
investigator’s laboratory and made available freely and without
restriction to any scientists, providing sufficient amounts are
availabe. The only exception to this is if a reagent or line was
provided with a restrictive materials transfer agreement, in which case
the recipient investigator will be directed to the primary source of the
reagent.

Notes
-----

* **Version 1.2.0**
* Updated on May 28, 2015 by Dave Bridges <<dave.bridges@gmail.com>>
* The version numbering for this document is described in the [Lab
    Policies README](https://github.com/BridgesLab/Lab-Documents/blob/master/Lab%20Policies/README.rst).
    See the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/BridgesLab/Lab-Documents/blob/master/Lab%20Policies/data-resource-sharing.rst)
    for more granular changes.

