The obesity pandemic is a leading cause of ill health, and is a risk factor for many chronic diseases including diabetes, liver disease and cardiovascular disease. While most approved anti-obesity therapies focus on reducing energy intake, the other way to promote negative energy balance is to elevate energy expenditure and nutrient dissipation. We propose mTORC1 plays a critical role regulating this utilization of excess nutrients.  At the center of nutrient sensing is mTORC1. While mTORC1 is appreciated to mediate nutrient storage, I think of mTORC1 as responding to nutrient and energy excess by engaging _both anabolic and catabolic pathways_ (Figure [aims-schematic placeholder]). This hypothesis is supported by data demonstrating a role for mTORC1 in promoting BAT thermogenesis @Liu2016b @Labbe2016 @Lee2016a @Tran2016 @Magdalon2016, and excess amino acid catabolism @Csibi2013 @Csibi2014. We have shown that mTORC1 activity is _necessary_ for diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT) and is _sufficient_ for increased energy expenditure and resistance to diet-induced obesity and metabolic disease. 


## Increased energy expenditure is a normal physiologic mechanism to compensate for elevated caloric intake.

Clinical studies have shown that energy expenditure can adjust to under- or overfeeding @Acheson1988 @Leibel1995a. This is consistent with the observation that obese individuals have higher energy expenditure than lean subjects @James1978 @Ravussin1982 @Ravussin1986 @Leibel1995a @Delany2013. This process of _diet-induced thermogenesis_ (DIT) is an adaptation to higher macronutrient levels and functions to limit weight gain. In a small human study, acute suppression of energy expenditure by induced by fasting was inversely associated with the ability to lose weight on chronic calorie restriction @Meng2020. This suggests that diet-related adaptive thermogenesis may be more prognostic than the association between basal metabolic rate and obesity risk, which is minimal @Luke2009 @Rimbach2022. The mechanisms underlying DIT are largely unclear, but previous studies have shown that impairment of MC4R or β-adrenergic signaling blocks DIT @Rothwell1979 @Butler2001 @Bachman2002 @Berglund2014. 

## The nutrient sensor mTORC1 promotes skeletal muscle fuel oxidation.

mTORC1 is an evolutionarily conserved nutrient sensing complex that is activated in response to elevated nutrients and energy in all eukaryotic cells (reviewed in @Efeyan2015). In muscle tissue, mTORC1 is activated by obesity @Khamzina2005b @Tremblay2007, concordant with a switch towards oxidative muscle fibers @Lexell1995a @Goodpaster2001 @Dube2008. Cell and animal models of mTORC1 activation have been developed via deletion of its negative regulators TSC1 and TSC2. These studies show that mTORC1 activation is sufficient for mitochondrial biogenesis, ATP production and whole-body energy expenditure @Cunningham2007 @Ramanathan2009 @Koyanagi2011 @Bentzinger2013 @Guridi2015. 